---
layout: post
title:  "Community, Climate, Coding"
---
Hey there, thank you for perusing my site!

I am passionate about the impacts of computing on society and the environment. By this, I mean how technology positively and negatively impacts the world. Let's take a walk down memory lane and get a little bit deep. Think about your connection to technology. The times that you have felt sucked in like a vortex, the times that you have been liberated, the times that you have felt annoyed. Your time is valuable, so it is important to know when applications are using you, rather than you using them. Maybe you are thinking that I sound a bit crazy right now. Well good, because it is a crazy concept that we have created these tools with glowing screens that we can create powerful tools with. These powerful tools are not to be taken lightly. 

In middle school, I had an iPod touch. This was in 2010 when Instagram was created. The most formative years of my childhood were shaped by Instagram, social image online, and spending hours comparing my childhood activities to other children online. Instagram took that time from me when I could have been playing outside.

In high school, I wanted to create an application that allowed people to feel like they had control of technology rather than feeling that technology was using them. Maybe this feeling of being used and having my time exploited by technology is a "me issue", but a feeling deep in my gut tells me that other people have experienced this same phenomenon. I created a design for an application that I called "WIDE" to open people's eyes to current events and actions that they could take instead of focusing on self-image online. The goal was to widen that algorithm to see the larger world rather than focus in and center the self. I wanted people, especially young women like myself to feel that they could use technology to create, rather than having to use applications in the exact ways that the creators wanted them to use them. Remember, application creators are in the market for your time. Your time is money.

So I showed this application idea to my cross country coach and he told me that I should get a computer science degree so that I had the tools to make this dream a reality. In college, I did just that, and damn, computer science was challenging. My college days were spent in the dark computer lab frustrated and defeated until that final bug was fixed and I felt like a god…until the next assignment came around and I was at square one again. Computer science has taught me resilience. It has taught me that you do not have to be the best, or even good at something to be a part of it. Computer science has taught me that I can create and that I have grit. Lots of it. 

And now I am in my mid-twenties. I work as a data manager for a field station called the Sitka Sound Science Center and I am located in Sitka, Alaska. My office sits atop an aquarium where my coworker, the aquarist, recently dove and found a Pacific spiny lumpsucker to add to the robust collection of specimens. I love my job. I am inspired by my coworkers every day. I feel like I am making a difference in the world. 

There is a melody in my head. She plays joyous chords on a grand piano making me cry, for existence in life is rich and I am overwhelmingly grateful that there is infinity to learn. Her chords are simple and repetitive and they sing me to sleep. 
